So we will be using R? Why R? Basically its
because its the best statistical software
out there. It's free, it's open source, and
it's incredible powerful and easy to use.
Over the past 5 to 7 years, practically all
the companies in the industry have transitioned
into R. And also in the academical world,
most researches are using R. Right now, its
very hard to find a statistics paper that
was published not using R. One of the great
things that R has is that it allows to create
new packages, so every single day a lot of
people from around the world will be uploading
new packages and new functions. So you will
always feel that you are using the latest
techniques and software out there. Apart from
this great thing (that it allows you to install
new things) R is a very powerful plotting
tool. It allows you to create very powerful
charts. To be honest, I think that the greatest
drawback that R has, is that it is a rather
limited tool for data processing. What happens
a lot in the industry is that you will need
to pre-process your data a lot before modelling.
So because R is not the greatest tool out
there for data processing, you will always
feel that you need to do some things in Excel
before actually modelling